Welcome to the
eLearning session,
Getting Started with Ensemble,
A Business Process Overview.
This session will
describe the basics
of using Business Process
Language, BPL, to orchestrate
calls to external
applications, take actions
based on the responses, and
to build long-running Business
Processes.
It automates what
a person might do
to carry out a task
involving multiple systems.
It is not just another
programming environment.
The responses may
come back immediately,
or may have to wait for
some external event.
For example, the
Business Process
may need approval by
a person, or an order
may have to wait until
the items are in stock.
This may take
hours or even days.
And the Business Process has
to resume where it left off.
A Business Process will
maintain its state,
even if the system is restarted.
The Ensemble
graphical BPL editor
allows a Business Process
to be displayed and modified
in a visual form
like a flowchart
with activities
connected by lines.
The details of each
activity are accessed
by clicking on the
activity in the BPL editor.
The Business Process is then
added to an Ensemble Production
to be invoked from a Business
Service or another Business
Process.
A new Business
Process written in BPL
is created in the Management
Portal or the Ensemble Studio.
Let's go to the BPL editor
in the Management Portal.
So we'll click on Ensemble,
Build, and Business Process.
We will create a
new Business Process
by clicking on the
New button, where
we are prompted for a package
and name of the Business
Process.
When we click OK, you will
see that we have the starting
point of a Business Process
with a start and end activity.
In the General tab, you
can see general information
about this Business Process.
In the Context tab, you specify
the Request and Response
Messages sent to and returned
by this Business Process.
It also allows you
to add properties
to the Context object.
And I'll explain more about
Context in just a moment.
A Business Process is invoked
when a Request Message
is sent to it by
a Business Service
or by another Business Process.
This message is known
as the primary request.
Within the Business
Process, this
can be accessed as the
request object reference.
If the Business Process
returns a response,
it is done via the
primary response,
and is accessed as the
response object reference.
The primary request and
the primary response
are configured in
the Context tab,
and their properties are
available to all activities
in this Business Process.
You can then add a new activity
by clicking on Add Activity
and selecting the
activity to add.
For example, if I wish to make
a call to another Business
Process or to a
Business Operation,
I will add the call activity.
And in the Activity
tab, I can fill
in the details for the type
of message to send and return.
I then can connect
the activity so we
have a complete flowchart.
When a BPL-based
Business Process starts,
the response object is
automatically created.
But it is the responsibility
of the Business Process
to set the properties
of the response.
During execution of
the Business Process,
you may need to store values
that are not properties
of either the primary request
or the primary response
that you will use later.
These should be stored as
properties of the Context
object, and are defined
in the Context tab.
Most Business Processes
require Context properties.
You can simply add variable
properties to the Context
object, or you can define it
to have properties that are
serial or persistent objects.
For example, if I need to
store a temporary customer ID,
I can add a string
property CustomerID
by clicking on the plus
sign and adding the details.
And we have just added
a Context property.
At different points in the
Business Process, execution
stops and the state of
the Business Process,
including the request,
context, and response objects,
are stored to disk.
When the Business
Process wakes up again,
these objects are reopened, but
any local variables are lost.
Let's look at a working
example of a Business Process.
This process is used in
an online ordering system
and makes call to an inventory
system, order processing
system, and a price
list database.
Let's take a look at
this Business Process.
The primary request
and primary responses
are defined as an order
request and an order response.
We also have several
context properties
so that we will be able to use
them within the specific calls.
As soon as the order request
comes into the Business
Process, we make a call
to CheckInventory to see
if there is enough stock.
If there is, we place the
order, check the price,
build the response, check for
restock, and we're finished.
If there is not enough
stock, the order is refused
and we build an
appropriate response
and finish off the
Business Process.
You have been watching
Getting Started with Ensemble,
A Business Process Overview.